# Learning objectives

1. Summarize fundamental concepts for using Databricks SQL effectively.
2. Identify tools and features in Databricks SQL for querying and analyzing data, as well as sharing insights, with the larger organization.
3. Explain how Databricks SQL supports data analysis workflows that allow users to extract and share business insights.

---

1. R:
    - A SQL Endpoint
        - To select and start an endpoint, simply click Start on the endpoint you choose.  To run any query, you must have a running SQL endpoint.
    - Access to a Databricks Database
        - In general, you will be querying cleaned and prepared data that has been organized into tables for you. A Databricks Database is a collection of tables.

2. R:
    - Dashboards
    - Queries
    - Alerts

3. R: In each of these scenarios, the stakes are high, and continuous monitoring is manual. All it takes is a missed check-in to cause an expensive problem. With Databricks SQL Analytics, you can set a schedule to automatically refresh your queries and set alerts to let you know when some value falls outside of your expected range.

---

Working with Databricks SQL means you will be working with Spark

- The Databricks SQL UI lets you:
  - Use SQL commands to perform ad-hoc and exploratory data analysis on your data lake
  - Quickly develop agile dashboards to test and validate business requirements
  - Track KPIs with automatic alerts or dashboard refresh on the latest data

- BI tools provide:
  - A no code, drag and drop interface for data analytics
  - Enterprise-wide distributed reports and dashboards
  - Complex interconnected dashboards for advanced parameter filtering and customization

Performance - Life of a query:

1. BI & SQL Client Connectors
    - You can write queries via the Databricks SQL UI or using your favorite BI tool.
    - Dashboards must connect to third software as Tableau, Power BI.
2. ODBC / JDBC Drivers
    - Databricks new drivers have been re-engineered to provide lower latencies and higher data transfer speeds.
3. Routing Service
    - Offer scalable query routing and load balancing with predictable low latency characteristics
4. Query Planning
    - Are planned and optimized to be as efficient as possible and accelerate workloads on data lakes up to 18x
5. Query Execution
    - Photon is a new, vectorized query engine designed to take advantage of modern CPU architecture for extremely fast parallel processing of data.
6. DELTA Lake
    - Brings reliability and organization to data lakes. When you use Databricks SQL, you are querying directly on you Delta Lake. While you're getting super fast performance, you're also accessing the same up-to-date and reliable data as the rest of your team.
